A chatbot is an artificial intelligence (AI) software that can simulate a conversation (or a chat) with a user in natural language through messaging applications, websites, mobile apps or through the telephone.
Why are chatbots important? A chatbot is often described as one of the most advanced and promising expressions of interaction between humans and machines. However, from a technological point of view, a chatbot only represents the natural evolution of a Question Answering system leveraging Natural Language Processing (NLP). Formulating responses to questions in natural language is one of the most typical Examples of Natural Language Processing applied in various enterprises’ end-use applications.

A chatbot (also known as a smartbot, talkbot, chatterbot, Bot, IM bot, interactive agent, conversational interface, Conversational AI, or artificial conversational entity) is a computer program or an artificial intelligence which conducts a conversation via auditory or textual methods.[1] Such programs are often designed to convincingly simulate how a human would behave as a conversational partner, thereby passing the Turing test. Chatbots are typically used in dialog systems for various practical purposes including customer service or information acquisition. Some chatbots use sophisticated natural language processing systems, but many simpler ones scan for keywords within the input, then pull a reply with the most matching keywords, or the most similar wording pattern, from a database.

The term "ChatterBot" was originally coined by Michael Mauldin (creator of the first Verbot, Julia) in 1994 to describe these conversational programs. Today, most chatbots are accessed via virtual assistants such as Google Assistant and Amazon Alexa, via messaging apps such as Facebook Messenger or WeChat, or via individual organizations' apps and websites. Chatbots can be classified into usage categories such as conversational commerce (e-commerce via chat), analytics, communication, customer support, design, developer tools, education, entertainment, finance, food, games, health, HR, marketing, news, personal, productivity, shopping, social, sports, travel and utilities.

Beyond chatbots, Conversational AI refers to the use of messaging apps, speech-based assistants and chatbots to automate communication and create personalized customer experiences at scale

gowtham is a good boy.

About Triton
Established in 2013, Triton, one of the fastest growing Professional Technology Consulting and Services Company, transforming the client's business, operating and technology models in the digital age.

Headquartered in Chennai, The SAAS Capital of India, Triton has its offices in India, US, and Malaysia, with a wide client base spread across the world.

Triton consults companies and provides them with State of Art Technology Solutions which will help them create, promote and strategize their brand in a very competitive world. 

Triton has built and worked on Technology, Digital Solutions across various Domains and Industry Verticals. Triton's Domain expertise has been built upon years of experience across industries and thus helping build a suite of tailor-made solutions to their clients.


Milestones of our exiting journey

Aug 16th 2013
Poor placement preparation by students in colleges. There was no proper mechanism for preparation to crack placements, sparks off the idea for a product.

Sep 25th 2013
We had the first employee on board. We rented out a small kitchen (part of another office) to set up our first office space. We had to share the office space to cut initial costs.

Oct 9th 2013
Triton was officially born. We started working on the first prototype of the product.

Oct 27th 2013
Since we started with a limited capital, we had to extend ourselves to do IT services. We started working on corporate website development for companies. 

Jan 29th, 2014
Triton established itself as a full fledged IT Services company, stalling the product development works. We expanded our services to Web Application development, E-Commerce portals etc.

June 20th 2014
Triton starts to develop Mobile application development. We had an Android Application development unit set up.  Guess what? we already signed up the first client before even setting up the development unit. 

Sep 15th 2014
Triton moves to a smaller independent office from the shared office space.

  Oct 17th 2014
Triton signs the biggest contract for software development with German-based Healthcare company “Massine Boecker GmBH (MBG)”.  We had set-up our first onsite team in Detroit, USA under the guidance of Mr.Velmurugan K who is one Triton’s senior consultant. This is the turning point for Team Triton.

March 23rd 2015
Triton successfully completes the product development for MBG. Triton establishes itself as a Bankable product development partner for companies. We have become development partners for multiple companies.

May 29th 2015
Triton expands to set up iOS Mobile app development Unit. 

July 1st 2015
Triton becomes the Offshore development partner for a Singapore Based company. Triton moves to a bigger commercial office space.

Sep 11th 2015
Triton signs-up one year Joint venture with a Cambodian company to provide software development services. Through the partner company, we had an opportunity to work with top companies in the world like Uber, Foodpanda, etc. 

  Jan 27th 2016
Triton becomes the technology partner for a Political party in Tamil Nadu, India.

April 18th 2016
Triton becomes the technology partner and development partner for “Salveo healthcare”, a Healthcare Company in Bangalore, extensively involving in Business strategy, product development, Enhancements and support activities.

July 3rd 2016
Triton started consulting Chennai Metro Rail Limited to digitise their internal process, as a part of Digital India Program. Hari is officially signed as a Technical consultant for the project.

Sep 22nd 2016
Triton starts developing a Prototype system for Chennai Metro Rail Limited. We started working closely with them to understand their pain points and problems. 

Oct 29th 2016
Triton becomes the exclusive development partner for Intellecta Inc and sets-up office in Delaware, USA.

Feb 2nd 2017
Triton celebrates working with 200+ clients

  April 3rd 2017
Triton becomes the Technology partner for the Malaysian Movie “Makrifat Cinta”. The Movie boasts about working with the best of the crews all around the world and top actors of Malaysian film industry. Oscar award winner A.R.Rahman has scored a song for the song, making it his first Malaysian movie.

May 13th 2017
Triton officially becomes the Software Development Partner for Chennai Metro Rail Project after winning the open tender process, competing with 24 other companies.We started working on the complete solution architecture for CMRL.

June 7th 2017 
Hari becomes the CTO of Salveo Healthcare, heading their complete product development activities.

July 19th 2017
Triton implements the first phase of the solution in CMRL. 

Oct 14th 2017
Triton establishes itself in Malaysia. Sets-up operations in Malaysia.

Nov 3rd 2017
Triton becomes the Technology partner for a Bangalore based company UPSPL. Digitising their internal system and becomes one of the established players in process automation.

Jan 21st 2018
Triton becomes the development partner for Xlicon Business services, Chennai, India.

Feb 4th 2018
Triton implements second phase of CMRL.

Feb 18th 2018
Triton becomes the product development partner for Zykrr Solutions to implement their product to their clients.

March 5th 2018
Triton becomes one of the Technology vendors for another Singapore based company. 

April 15th 2018
Triton restructures the team and Internal process. Re-aligns itself to the Business goals. Gears up for bigger challenges..!!

At Triton, we are passionate about what we do. In this journey, we look for smart people to join us in our exciting journey and help us build world-class solutions for our customers.

Passionate about your work? Smart worker? Having a hunger to learn? Wanted to join the energetic work environment?

If this sounds like you, feel free to browse through our current openings and Apply. We look forward to meet you soon in Triton

Current Open Positions
PHP Developers
IOS Developers
Dotnet Developers
MEAN Stack Developers